MALE: Every interview is different,
but you're almost always guaranteed to get asked,
"Tell me about yourself." How you answer this question can
set the tone for the interview, so you should have a polished
response ready to go. Often applicants don't know
how to respond and start talking about where they were born
or how many siblings they have. This is a natural response when
telling someone about you, but you want to remember
that this is a job interview. This question gives you
the perfect opportunity to talk about who you
are professionally, the strengths or
competencies that you possess and why you're
interested in the company. A great way to respond to
this interview question is to use the following model:
present, past, future. Present: introduce
yourself professionally. What is the title of your current
role, or, what are you studying and
when do you graduate? For example, "I am
studying communication with an emphasis in
visual media and will graduate at the
end of this month. I've had several experiences
working as a graphic designer. Most recently, I've been
working on rebranding one of the departments
at my university. I've been creating designs,
webpages, and videos to include in the new branding
and redesign of their website." Past: share how you got
where you are today. For example, "I found out I really
like creating digital graphics when I took an introductory
visual media course. I decided to switch my major
to visual communication and kept my eye out
for any opportunity I could find to create designs. I practiced and
refined my skills in Illustrator, InDesign,
and Photoshop. I found that I have
a natural talent for it and worked hard to
excel in this area." Future: share what
your future goals are and why the company or
role is of interest to you. For example, "I've been researching
what direction I want to go in my career and your
company continues to stand out to me because
of the way you... (mention something
that stands out to you.) When I saw you had an opening, I knew I wanted to be
part of your team. I admire the work that your company
does and want to be involved." After you've highlighted
yourself professionally, you can also mention
a hobby or interest to show your personal side. It helps to do some research
on the individuals who will be interviewing
you ahead of time to find out if you have
any common interests. If so, share that
common interest in your interview to build rapport. If you don't have any common
interests, that's okay. Just share something you enjoy. Keep your response
short, about one to two minutes, and relevant
to the position. By following these tips, you can
give a powerful answer and and set the tone for the
rest of your conversation. Good luck with your interview.