MALE: Did you know that recruiters
take 7.4 seconds on average to initially skim through your resume and determine if they
want to review it again? If you have a good format
where information is easy to find, you increase your chances of getting a second
review by a recruiter. To get started, make
sure your resume has a nice balance of text and white
space and doesn't look too crowded. Next, a good rule
of thumb is to have a one-inch margin from top
to bottom and side to side. You also want to
make it readable for an applicant tracking system, or
ATS, which is a screening tool many companies use
to sort out and discard applicants' resumes who
don't appear to have the right qualifications for the position. An ATS scans for keywords on your resume to determine if
you meet the requirements. So be sure to include
keywords that describe your knowledge and expertise
and match the job description, so you can make it to
the next round of reviews. Some things an ATS
can't see are graphics, tables, or text placed
in the header or footer. Graphics may be appropriate
for some audiences, but be aware that important
information included inside those elements
won't be read by an ATS. The font you use also plays an important part of
resume formatting. The best fonts to use on a
resume are Serif and Sans Serif. It is also best to avoid
using multiple fonts. You can guide the reader's eyes
through the resume by bolding, italicizing, capitalizing, underlining, or
adding a bit of color. The font size for the body
of the resume is anywhere from 10 point to 12 point. And be aware with some fonts,
12 point could look too big, and 10 point could look too small. Your name should be the biggest
and most visual element on your resume, up to
28 points in font size. This makes you stand out
to hiring managers and help them find your resume again
if they want to refer back to it. Then include your phone number, email address, and
LinkedIn profile URL. Remember to use a professional
email and avoid silly emails. Also remove all
hyperlinks for a clean look. If you choose to
include your location, keep it to your city and state rather than the
entire mailing address. When you write out
your experiences, always organize your information the same way from
experience to experience. For example, if you write your
title first and then the company, your next work experience
must be organized the same way. Choose an order that highlights your selling points
and then stick with it throughout your resume, because it will confuse your reader if
you change it up mid resume. You can either lead with the
company or with your job title. Either way is fine, but in the next
experience, don't change it up. This confuses the reader,
so always be consistent with whatever order you choose. There are plenty of choices
you can make when formatting your resume and the order of
sections can be different for different audiences. The important thing is to keep the
document formatting consistent in all your resumes and always think
about who is reading your resume. Good luck writing your resume. ♪♪ happy music ♪♪