MALE NARRATOR:
The best time to negotiate salary is after you
receive a job offer. However, sometimes
employers ask you about your salary expectations
during the interview. If that happens to you, here are
a couple of ways you can respond. For example, during the interview, you get asked, what
salary are you expecting? You can respond to the question
using a postponing statement like, "I am very open to negotiation and my top priority is
finding the right fit. Once we find that, I am
happy to discuss salary." Or you can flip the question
back to them by saying, "That is a great question. It would be helpful if you could share what the range
is for the role," or, "what do you typically pay someone with my skills
and experience?" If they don't have a range for you,
then use the postponing phrase. However, if they do
give you a range, then you need to let them know
if the salary works for you. If the range is in line with what
you were expecting and hoping for, then you can say something like, "That sounds great, and
I look forward to having a negotiation discussion
if a job offer is given," and then continue
with the interview. But if the range is
lower than you wanted, you can say something like, "I was hoping for
something more in the 55,000 to 65,000 dollar range,
but I am open to negotiating based on the entire
compensation package." At this point, it would be best
to continue with the interview so you can determine
if you are the right fit for the company and if the
company is the right fit for you. Another way to respond is to share
a range based off your research. If you do share a range, keep
the bottom of your range around the high point
of what you want. For example, if your target
salary is $55,000, then you can share a range
of $55,000 to $65,000. You are more likely to get
your targeted salary this way. When stating a range, there are some risks that
you need to be aware of. If you are the first one to mention
a number, two things could happen. If you state a salary that is
too high for the company, you may take yourself
out of the running. Your salary research
can help you know what today's market value
is for the job title and you should also know the lowest salary you
are willing to accept. If the company can't match it, you may have to continue
with the job search. If you give a range that is lower than what they
were willing to pay you, you could potentially miss
out on a higher salary. For example, you said
$55,000 to $60,000 and they were willing
to pay you $80,000, they may offer you $60,000, but you still left
$20,000 on the table. Again, the more salary
research you do, including finding contexts
within the company so you can ask about salary ranges,
the better prepared you are to negotiate and obtain
your target salary. Good luck negotiating your salary.