MALE: Need some help preparing answers for your
next interview. Try using the STAR model. It is a model used
to respond to behavioral-based
interview questions. These are questions
about how you handled certain work situations
in the past. Employers often
use behavioral questions to identify if you have the skills
and experience needed to excel
in the job. They are also a good
indicator of how you'll perform in future
work experiences. You can tell you're
being asked a behavioral question when the interviewer
starts with, "Tell me about a time" or "Can you give
me an example?" Some examples of
behavioral based questions are, "Tell me about a time when you performed well under
enormous pressure." "Can you give me an example of a difficult problem You solved at work? How did you go about
reaching a solution?" "Tell me about a
time when you had to develop
a new skill." So how do you use the STAR model to answer
a question? Let's break it down. STAR stands for situation, task, action, and result. First, you should
introduce the situation to the employer, which
provides context. Next, describe the task
you had to complete, including the expectations
and challenges it would involve. Then explain the
actions you took, what you did, and
how you did it. Finally share the results, what the outcomes of
your actions were, and what you accomplished. When you include all four steps
in your answer, it provides a complete answer to the question. Let's walk through
an example of how to answer a behavioral-based question using the STAR method. Tell me about a
time when you made a mistake at work. How did you handle
the situation? My boss asked
me to send out a mass email to all
employees in our company. We don't send mass emails to our employees
very often, so when they do
receive one, they know it's important. In the email, there
was a reference to some yearly information
that they would read more about
in an included attachment. It was my responsibility to draft the
email and make sure everything
that needed to be communicated
was included. Then I would
send it out to all the employees. I drafted the e-mail
and sent it to several co-workers
to review for content and errors. Once I received all my
coworkers feedback, I updated the email and read it over several times myself to make sure it
was clear and concise. I also ask my boss to
review it and she was comfortable with it. When 
I thought it was ready, I sent it out
as a mass email to all company employees. In my excitement to
complete the assignment, I forgot to include
the attachment. When I realized
I had forgotten to include the attachment, I quickly informed
by boss and promptly send a follow-up email which included
the attachment. Everyone received
the important information and the attachment
was sent within five-minutes of the
original email. My boss appreciated
that I let her know about the
mistake right away, and it turned
out I was more upset about it
than she was. From this experience,
I learned that it is
helpful to create a checklist before
sending out a mass email so I don't forget
attachments in the future. I also have adopted the
use of checklists and other responsibilities
so I can prevent as many
mistakes as possible. Since that time, I have used my checklist whenever sending out mass emails and have remained
error-free. Why is it a good idea
to use this model? Because it helps
you put together a complete answer that highlights your skills and performance and helps
the interviewer determine if
you are a good fit for the position. Try implementing the
STAR model the next time you need to
prepare answers for interview questions. A helpful tip is to
write down a list of skills or experiences required for the position. You can find
those in the job posting or similar
job postings. Then think of
specific examples of when you displayed
those skills. Write the examples
down and label each portion using STAR. Labeling all elements of STAR will help you
recognize when you have to put together a complete answer that demonstrates your
skills and experience. Good luck with
your interview.