FEMALE: A common 
interview question you might get asked in an
interview is, "What is one of
your weaknesses?" One way to answer this
question is to use the following model.
Think about a strength. What is a
weakness you have as a result of
that strength? How have you overcome
that weakness? So think about one of your strengths
that contribute well to the workforce. Then think about a
weakness that has resulted from you
using that strength. For example, let's say
that you are good at supporting
your team members when they
ask for help. But if you are
not careful, you can overextend
yourself because of your
willingness to help. You could say
something like, "I enjoy being a team
player and I am always willing
to help others with projects when asked. But sometimes
this has caused me to overextend
myself by saying yes, even if I don't
have the time." Then the most
important part of your answer is to share how you have overcome
your weakness. So you can show it isn't an issue with
your performance. I have learned to overcome this weakness by first evaluating my projects, deadlines, and
responsibilities. I'm realistic about
how much time I need to successfully complete my own responsibilities. That gives me an idea
of how much time I can dedicate to supporting others
when they asked. Because I'm more
realistic with my time, I can quickly determine when I can say yes or no, and what I can
say yes to later. This approach has
helped me keep my performance high and continue to support
my coworkers. I don't overextend
myself like I used to. Why do hiring managers
ask this question? They are assessing
a few things. How self-aware you are
about your abilities, how genuine you
are as a person, meaning you aren't
using a cliche weakness like "I work too hard" or
"I'm a perfectionist". Will your weaknesses be an issue for the
position and or company? Do you work to improve
your weaknesses. So remember,
when developing an answer for
this question, you can use the model. Think about a strength. What is a weakness you have as a result
of that strength? How have you overcome
that weakness? Good luck with
your interview.