FEMALE: How do you organize
the sections on your resume? The answer depends
on your experience and what your audience is seeking. A study done by the
Latters reveals that people read a resume in an
F or E shaped pattern, and tend to focus more
on information included on the top of your resume. So keep that in mind as
you organize your sections. The most common
types of sections found on a resume are your
contact information, professional summary or profile, education, work
experience, and skills. Other sections that can be
helpful are volunteer experience, certifications,
languages, awards, etc. You don't always have to include
every section and how you order your resume sections depends on what you want the
reader to see first. There isn't a right or
wrong way to do it, so always consider
who your audience is and what they want
to know about a candidate. For most college students,
that means listing your education first and then your
work experience. For others, it means having a headline or summary
and then experience. Whatever you choose,
make sure it communicates your value in the best
possible way to the reader. In each section, you should always list your most recent
experience first. This is called reverse
chronological order. If you have an older experience
that is more relevant to the position for which you are applying and want the
reader to see it first, you can always
create a section called Relevant Work Experience
and list it there. Then add another section called
Additional Work Experience to list everything else in reverse
chronological order. The way you ordered your sections will change over time as
you gain more experience. A good tip is to always organize
your sections so that you display your most impressive
traits and experiences at the top. The best way to determine if
you are doing that is to reach out to contacts in your network
who work in your desired industry. They will help you gain insights, so you know when
you are spotlighting the right experiences based
on your audience's needs. Good luck organizing your resume. ♪♪ faint happy music ♪♪