MALE: A summary on your resume
can be a great way to highlight your experience
and background. It helps the reader learn if you're a good fit
for their position. But how do you write
a good resume summary? It's easiest to write
your resume first, and then identify
accomplishment themes that show up
throughout your resume. For example, if you find that
you're always using problem-solving skills
from one experience to the next, your statement
could look like this. "Experienced data analyst
with an eagerness for solving complex problems." A summary works great
for candidates with several years of experience. That's because they can tie
work history themes together. However, if you don't have
a lot of work experience that ties together well, a summary can be a great way
to show the career path that you're focused on. If you're transitioning
to a new career path, it can also explain
why experience on a resume doesn't seem immediately relevant. If a summary statement
is done right, it can be a game changer. If done poorly,
it can be a waste of space. If you find it difficult to write
a strong summary statement and could make better use
of the space with other resume sections, then you may not want
to include one. Just be aware if your audience
wants one or not. Here are some tips
that you can follow. Start with a key adjective
to describe yourself, like resourceful,
client-focused, or creative. Use words that show
that you did something like "increased
customer satisfaction," "produced social media
content daily," or "maintained
accurate inventory," etc. Use words that express movement,
like improve, grow, maximize, strengthen, revitalize. Include keywords
specific to the position that you're applying for. Be brief and concise. You can use bullet points
or sentences to tell the reader
what you have to offer. By writing a strong
summary section, you'll be able to better
showcase your value, and be one step closer
to getting your dream job. Good luck with your summary! [outro music]