FEMALE: Are you submitting
the same resume for every position? If so, you may be getting
overlooked by recruiters. Learning how to tailor
your resume to different audiences can help you stand out. How do you tailor your resume? First, research your audience. The Career Center
has a worksheet called "Know Your Audience Guide" that helps you organize
your research and outlines the types
of information you should consider when tailoring your resume. It takes you through
the important categories like qualifications,
the job description, the company mission
statements and values, and the top five skills and attributes needed
for the position. Most of this information will come from the job posting
and company website. Some other resources
to do additional research include informational interviews,
BYUI Connect, the McKay Library databases,
LinkedIn, Handshake, Glassdoor, and Indeed. You can learn more
about these resources in our other videos. Once you have compiled
your research, look for keywords
on the job description that match your skills
and highlight them. Make sure those keywords
show up on your resume in your experiences. They can help you determine
what experiences you should showcase on your resume. For example, if a job posting
is looking for someone with strong communication skills,
think about one of your experiences where you had to use
strong communication skills and write a bullet for it. Even if you haven't had
direct experience for the position for which you're applying, showcasing transferable skills
is a good strategy. For example, if you're applying
for a graphic design position that requires creativity and your background
is in fast food, you can share an experience
where you were creative in solving a problem
for the company or the customer. You do not need to write
a new resume for every position that you apply for. It's okay to have a basic resume
that you can alter as needed. By using these tips,
you're on a good path to tailoring your resume
for each position. Good luck tailoring your resume. [cheerful outro music]