FEMALE: How do you
know if you're writing strong bullets on your resume? One trap many college students
fall into is writing bullets that explain their job duties. Let's look at an example of a job duty bullet for
an apartment manager. Rented apartments to college
students in 40-unit building. Collected rent each month. Maintained property. Notice they don't tell
the reader anything about the accomplishments or value the apartment manager
brought to the company. Your bullets should show
off your accomplishments. Here are some tips to help you. Start with strong action verbs
to show your accomplishments. You can search for resume action
verbs to find more examples. Depending on the skill
you want to highlight, there are several action
verbs you can use. Next, ask yourself what you did, how you did it, and
what was the result? Or you can try the car
model, which stands for challenge, action, and result. Here's an example. Maintained accurate
inventory reports using shop control CRM,
improving efficiency 9 percent. The phrase, "Maintained
accurate inventory reports" answers what you
did, or the challenge. "Using Shop Control CRM" answers
how you did it or the action, and "Improving efficiency
9 percent" answers the result. After you've identified and labeled
all three elements in your bullet, then rearrange it to
start with the result. This is called
frontloading your bullets, and it allows the reader to
see your accomplishments first. Increased efficiency
9 percent by maintaining accurate inventory reports
using Shop Control CRM. Quantifying your accomplishments using numbers and percentages
also makes your bullets stronger, but don't make up numbers
if you don't know them. Here's an example
of a quantified bullet. Increased 40-unit apartment
building occupancy rate from 85 percent to 100 percent
in four months by expanding marketing to three
social media platforms. You can also showcase
your experience by stating the goal of a project
and how you accomplished it. Here are some examples. Ensured customer
satisfaction through ability to assess and meet customer
needs when issues arose. Improved and enforced
training standards by obtaining food handlers permit. Finally, resumes have a
unique writing standard that you should follow. The standard leaves out
personal pronouns like I, you, we, and they, and
articles like the, a, and an. Also, bullets should be written in past tense except
your current position. You can choose to write
it in past or present tense. However, don't mix tenses. Choose which tense works
best for your current position. One last thing, make sure
there are no spelling errors. Applying all these tips will help
you write stronger bullets that get noticed by recruiters and improve
your chances of landing that job. Good luck writing your resume.