FEMALE: Feel like you
don't have much experience to include on a resume? Don't worry. There are a lot of things
that you can include. Here are a few tips to get started. Include relevant coursework,
volunteer experience, hobbies, interests, and school projects. These types of
experiences highlight the skills you used to
accomplish the task. Say you studied taekwondo
but didn't earn a black belt. Highlight how many
years you studied it. It can still demonstrate your
dedication and work ethic. A well-written
professional summary is an excellent way to explain the
skills you can bring to a position. Focus on explaining qualifications
for the job you are applying for, rather than your
lack of work history. A fantastic way to
display the skills your audience is seeking
is to include projects, research, involvement
and academic societies, and presentations
that you have done. You can provide details about
these experiences in bullet points. A lot of work experience
that you do have might not seem directly relevant to
the job you are applying for. Focus on transferable skills and write about them
in your bullet points. You may feel like your experience
is irrelevant or unimpressive. In those cases, focus
on the elements of your experience that would
be important to your audience, like time management
or organization. Incoming freshmen and a parent
returning to employment after several years might not have much or any work experience
to write about. Include as much volunteer
experience as you can. You could also
include any unofficial work experience that you have had, like babysitting or dog walking
or working hard on a team. These types of experiences
can help you establish attributes like strong
work ethic or dedication. Most students have more to include
on a resume than they think. Talk to mentors,
professors, family, friends, and classmates about
your accomplishments to help you brainstorm things
you can include on a resume. Remember that everyone
starts somewhere. Good luck writing your resume.